

Link tham khảo:
	https://docs.cloudera.com/HDPDocuments/HDP2/HDP-2.6.5/bk_security/content/knox_gateway_deployment_architecture.html
	https://knox.apache.org/
Application Gateway la gi?
	clip huong dan:
		https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8NrO8nHHPDs
		how does Application gateway work?
			Xem clip phut 10:56 
		Component of application gateway?
			Xem clip phut 13:43
LDAP là gì?
	ref link: https://www.okta.com/identity-101/what-is-ldap/
	What Is LDAP?
		+ LDAP là một protocol dùng cho việc "accessing and maintaining authentication information"
		+ LDAP can also tackle authentication, so users can sign on just once and access many different files on the server.(verify 1 lần và truy cập nhiều tài nguyên khác nhau)
	How LDAP work?
		Two methods LDAP authenticate the user:
			+ SIMPLE: The correct name and password connect the user to the server. 
			+ SIMPLE AUTHENTICATION AND SECURITY LAYER (SASL). A secondary service, such as Kerberos, performs authentication before the user can connect. For companies that require advanced security, this can be a good option.
		LDAP query:
		+ Session connection. The user connects to the server via an LDAP port. 
		+ Request. The user submits a query, such as an email lookup, to the server. 
		+ Response. The LDAP protocol queries the directory, finds the information, and delivers it to the user. 
		+ Completion. The user disconnects from the LDAP port.
	Operations with LDAP:
		+ Add. Enter a new file into the database. 
		+ Delete. Take out a file from the database. 
		+ Search. Start a query to find something within the database. 
		+ Compare. Examine two files for similarities or differences. 
		+ Modify. Make a change to an existing entry.
 	LDAP Terms to Understand
		+ Data models
		+ Distinguished name 
		+ Modifications
		+Relative distinguished name (RDN)
		+ Schema
		+ URLs
		+ URI
	
	vocab: 
		in concert with: phoi hop vs
		tapping away at a computer: khai thac may tinh
		impenetrable 
		novices: nguoi  moi vao nghe

Knox documents
	https://knox.apache.org/books/knox-0-13-0/dev-guide.html
	Overview
		Is reverse proxy
		2 definition:
			reverse proxy:
				Giong nhu thrift LB
			forward proxy:
				giong nhu proxy cai dat tren chrome
	Architecture Overview 
		-Is a layer over an embedded Jetty JEE server
		- JEE Servlet Filter
		- Has 2 extensibility  mechanisms:
			Service:
				Ex: WebHdfs is plugged into the Knox gateway as a Service
			Provider
				Allows adding new features to the gateway that can be used across Services
		- Service and Provider interact with gateway in 2 phase:
			runtime
				Is the processing of requests via a set of Filters configured in the WAR.
			deployment:
				+is responsible for converting fairly simple to understand configuration called topology into JEE WebArchive (WAR)
		- JEE WebArchive  (WAR)	
			deployment:
			runtime:
	Project Overview 
	SPI: stand for Serial Peripheral Interface thiet bi ngoai vi
		gateway-util-common	----	Common low level utilities used by many modules.
		gateway-util-launcher	----	The launcher framework.
		gateway-util-urltemplate	----	The i18n logging and resource framework.
		gateway-i18n	----	The URL template and rewrite utilities
		gateway-i18n-logging-log4j	----	The integration of i18n logging with log4j.
		gateway-i18n-logging-sl4j	----	The integration of i18n logging with sl4j.
		gateway-spi	----	The SPI for service and provider extensions.
		gateway-provider-identity-assertion-common	----	The identity assertion provider base
		gateway-provider-identity-assertion-concat	----	An identity assertion provider that facilitates prefix and suffix concatenation.
		gateway-provider-identity-assertion-pseudo	----	The default identity assertion provider.
		gateway-provider-jersey	----	The jersey display provider.
		gateway-provider-rewrite	----	The URL rewrite provider.
		gateway-provider-rewrite-func-hostmap-static	----	Host mapping function extension to rewrite.
		gateway-provider-rewrite-func-service-registry	----	Service registry function extension to rewrite.
		gateway-provider-rewrite-step-secure-query	----	Crypto step extension to rewrite.
		gateway-provider-security-authz-acls	----	Service level authorization.
		gateway-provider-security-jwt	----	JSON Web Token utilities.
		gateway-provider-security-preauth	----	Preauthenticated SSO header support.
		gateway-provider-security-shiro	----	Shiro authentiation integration.
		gateway-provider-security-webappsec	----	Filters to prevent common webapp security issues.
		gateway-service-as	----	The implementation of the Access service POC.
		gateway-service-definitions	----	The implementation of the Service definition and rewrite files.
		gateway-service-hbase	----	The implementation of the HBase service.
		gateway-service-hive	----	The implementation of the Hive service.
		gateway-service-oozie	----	The implementation of the Oozie service.
		gateway-service-tgs	----	The implementation of the Ticket Granting service POC.
		gateway-service-webhdfs	----	The implementation of the WebHdfs service.
		gateway-server	----	The implementation of the Knox gateway server.
		gateway-shell	----	The implementation of the Knox Groovy shell.
		gateway-test-ldap	----	Pulls in all of the dependencies of the test LDAP server.
		gateway-server-launcher	----	The launcher definition for the gateway.
		gateway-shell-launcher	----	The launcher definition for the shell.
		knox-cli-launcher	----	A module to pull in all of the dependencies of the CLI.
		gateway-test-ldap-launcher	----	The launcher definition for the test LDAP server.
		gateway-release	----	The definition of the gateway binary release. Contains content and dependencies to be included in binary gateway package.
		gateway-test-utils	----	Various utilities used in unit and system tests.
		gateway-test	----	The functional tests.
		pom.xml	----	The top level pom.
		build.xml	----	A collection of utility for building and releasing.
		
	